Hi everyone!
This is a small introduction for the section 14 Python exceptions.
Python is a high level programming language that allows developers to write code in a clear and concise
manner.
However, even the best written code can still result in errors or exceptions that can crash your program.
This is where Python's exception handling comes in.
In the section 14, we will cover what exceptions are, how to handle them in Python, and the best
practices to follow.
First, what are exceptions in Python?
In Python, exceptions are events that occur during the execution of a program that disrupt the normal
flow of instruction.
When an exception occurs, Python raises an error message that indicates the type of exception and the
line number where the exceptions occurred.
The error message allows you to identify the problem and make corrections to your code.
This is an example of function divide, which takes as argument two variables x and y.
We will try to do the division between these two numbers and see the result.
Let's start by the first example x take two and y take zero.
Here Python will throw an error y because Python does not allow division by zero.
The first output is division by zero.
The block finally is always executed, even there are an exception or not.
The second output will be executing.
Finally, close.
In the second example x take two and y take two.
The result is float.
1.0.
The block executed is the block, Else the block.
Else.
Execute when there is no exception.
The block finally executed.
Also the second output is executing.
Finally close.
This is a small recap for the first example.
In the first example, we define a function divide that takes two arguments x and y and returns the
question.
However, when we call the function with x equal to and y equals zero, a zero division occurs and Python
raise an error message indicating that division by zero is not allowed.
Let's go to PyCharm and understand more.
The first and the second example.
Here this is the function divide which takes two argument x and y.
In the first example x take two and y take zero.
Let's execute the code and see the result.
The first output is division by zero because Python throws this exception.
Zero Division error.
Division by zero is not allowed.
The first output is division by zero.
The second output is the execution of the block.
Finally.
The block finally always executed.
Even there are an exception or not.
The second output.
Executing.
Finally.
Close.
Let's do the second example.
X take two and y take two.
What will be the result?
Result is 1.0.
Here the first output is from the block.
Else because there is no exception.
When we don't have exception, the block else is executed and always the block.
Finally executing.
Finally close.
We will talk about different types of exception.
What are the else?
And finally keywords and some specific of exception handling in Python in the upcoming chapters.
In the second part, also a small introduction how to handle exceptions in Python.
Python provides a way to handle exceptions through the use of the try and accept statements.
The try statement includes a block of code that may raise an exception, while the accept statement
catches the exceptions and allows the program to continue executing the block.
Try code block that may raise an exception and in the block, accept code block to handle the exception.
And that's it for this small introduction to Python.
Exceptions.